A HAPPY TIME
FOR MOST FAMILIES
- WITH HEALTHY MOMS
AND HEALTHY BABIES.
- Woman: LOOK AT THAT NOSE!
Narrator:
BUT IN THE WOMB, THINGS
CAN SUDDENLY GO WRONG.
- ( monitor beeping )
- TERRIBLY WRONG.
THIS WAS GOING TO BE
ONE OF THOSE BABIES
THAT WAS DYING.
ENTER THE AMAZING WORLD
OF HIGH-RISK MEDICINE...
THAT'S A VERY
IMMATURE LUNG.
Narrator:
...AND LEARN ABOUT
A HIGH-TECH SOLUTION.
- Narrator:
IN A LOW-TECH PACKAGE.
- THIS BEAR IS BREATHING...
ARE THEY DESTINED TO BE
EMOTIONALLY DELAYED?
I CAN EITHER LOOK
OR TALK--
Narrator:
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING."
( theme music playing )
THE NORMAL GESTATION
FOR A BABY
IS 40 WEEKS IN THE WOMB,
BUT BABIES CAN BE BORN
A LOT EARLIER.
MODERN SCIENCE
IS NOW ABLE
TO KEEP BABIES ALIVE,
BUT THEIR BODIES
AND BRAINS
AREN'T REALLY READY
TO LIVE OUTSIDE THE WOMB,
AND THE STRUGGLE
CAN LAST FOR WEEKS,
AND EVEN MONTHS.
PARENTS OFTEN HAVE
TO PREPARE THEMSELVES
FOR THE FACT THAT
THEIR CHILDREN MAY DIE
OR SUFFER SERIOUS
LONG-TERM PROBLEMS.
TODAY,
WE'RE GONNA START
WITH A LOOK AT ONE
OF THE MOST ADVANCED
NEONATAL INTENSIVE
CARE UNITS
AND THE STORY
OF A LITTLE GIRL
BORN FAR TOO SOON.
- ( sirens wailing )
- Brazelton: THE STORY BEGINS
AT THE EMERGENCY
HELICOPTER PAD
ATOP PHILADELPHIA'S
JEFFERSON HOSPITAL--
A CODE-ONE MEDEVAC
FOR A VERY SICK WOMAN.
( radio chatter )
ANGELA PERRY IS
SIX MONTHS PREGNANT.
SUDDENLY,
ALL HER SYSTEMS
HAVE STARTED TO FAIL.
- ( monitor beeping )
- THE DOCTOR'S DECISION
BETWEEN A MOTHER
AND HER UNBORN CHILD.
Man:
THERE WAS A CHANCE,
YES, IT COULD LIVE,
YES, AND IT COULD DIE.
SHE WAS ACTUALLY
GETTING WORSE.
SO AT THAT POINT
YOU HAVE TO SAVE THE PERSON
AND WORRY ABOUT
THE BABY LATER.
Rosemary McWilliams:
ANGIE UNDERSTANDS
THE PHENOMENON
OF A MOTHER
RISKING HER LIFE
FOR A CHILD.
SHE'S LIKE,
"NOTHING CAN INTERFERE
WITH THIS BABY"
KIND OF THING,
AND I'M LIKE,
"WELL, JUST REMEMBER
YOU'RE MY BABY."
Brazelton:
AN EMERGENCY C-SECTION,
AND A BABY BORN
AT ONLY 24-WEEKS GESTATION,
FOUR MONTHS EARLY!
- Doctor: BABY'S OUT.
- Dr. Jay Greenspan:
WE KNOW THAT ONLY ABOUT
FIVE OUT OF 10
OF THEM WILL SURVIVE.
AND OF THOSE SURVIVORS,
SOME WILL BE
VERY VERY LONG-TERM
CRITICALLY-ILL INFANTS.
SOME WILL BE LONG-TERM--
WILL BE DEVASTATED
LONG TERM.
( sustained beep )
Brazelton:
JEFFERSON NEONATOLOGISTS
PERFORM A DELICATE
RESUSCITATION.
ALREADY,
IT'S TOUCH-AND-GO.
- ( phone ringing )
- ( monitor beeping )
A BABY BORN THIS EARLY
HAS SKIN AS THIN
AS TISSUE,
VEINS THE DIAMETER
OF SEWING THREAD.
THEY'RE BARELY
RECOGNIZABLE AS A BABY.
Woman:
YOU KNOW THEY'RE CRYING,
BUT YOU CAN'T HEAR THAT CRY.
YOU SEE THEM WINCING,
THE MOUTH GOING,
BUT NOTHING COMES OUT.
THE BIGGEST PROBLEM--
LUNGS ARE THE LAST ORGAN
TO DEVELOP IN THE WOMB.
THESE BABIES
JUST CAN'T BREATHE.
THAT'S A VERY
IMMATURE LUNG.
SHE IS LIVING
ON THE VENTILATOR RIGHT NOW.
AND WE'RE JUST
BARELY MAKING IT,
'CAUSE THE HEART IS TELLING US
THAT IT WANTS MORE.
IF WE GIVE MORE PRESSURE,
WE'RE GONNA END UP PUSHING
ON THE HEART,
AND IT'S GONNA BE
A VICIOUS CYCLE.
THAT'S WHERE I'M COMING FROM.
NOTHING ELSE WE CAN DO
BUT THE VENTILATOR, RIGHT?
HUH-UH, NOTHING
BUT THE VENTILATOR.
Brazelton:
TWO HOURS SINCE BIRTH.
THE BABY HAS
A NEW HOME--
JEFFERSON'S NEONATAL
INTENSIVE CARE UNIT.
SHE ALSO HAS A NAME--
ROBYNE GRACE PERRY.
( nurses conversing )
Brazelton:
CARE IS CRITICAL
TO THESE BABIES' SURVIVAL.
AND NOT JUST
ALL THE BREAKTHROUGH DRUGS
AND HIGH-TECH HARDWARE.
Baumgart:
THE LEAST WE TOUCH
THIS BABY,
THE MORE DELICATE,
THE MORE GENTLE
HER LIFE IS.
THAT'S WHY A MINIMAL
HANDLING STRATEGY IS
PROBABLY
THE BEST STRATEGY.
SHE DOESN'T NEED
THE EXTRA STRESS OF THAT.
Toni Mancini:
AS A NURSE,
IT'S UP TO US
NOT TO MISS
THE SUBTLE LITTLE THINGS
THAT CAN TURN OUT TO BE
LIFE-THREATENING.
THE WAY THE ENVIRONMENT
AFFECTS THESE BABIES
AND THEIR OUTCOMES,
IN TRYING TO RECREATE
THE QUIETNESS
OF THE WOMB--
CONTROLLING THE LIGHT,
CONTROLLING THE NOISE LEVEL.
YOU COULD BE SITTING
AT A BABY'S BEDSIDE,
AND THIS BABY
WILL BE FINE,
AND A FEW PEOPLE
MAY COME IN THE ROOM
NOT EVEN AWARE OF IT,
AND BE STANDING
A LITTLE BIT TOO CLOSE,
- AND SOMETIMES
YOU JUST SEE...
- ( beeping )
THAT THE SIGNS
ON THE BABY'S MONITOR
JUST NOSEDIVE.
Greenspan:
WE'RE NOT AS GOOD
AS A MOM.
WE CAN'T DUPLICATE
WHAT NATURE
HAS DESIGNED,
BUT WE ARE
MUCH MUCH MUCH BETTER
THAN WE WERE
EVEN FIVE YEARS AGO.
- 21, HEAD.
- Brazelton: ROBIN IS
EXTREMELY SMALL,
EVEN FOR A BABY
SO PREMATURE.
HER WEIGHT--
A LITTLE MORE THAN A POUND.
ROBIN SURVIVES
THE FIRST CRITICAL HOURS,
BUT HER PROGNOSIS
IS BLEAK.
( monitor beeping
loudly )
EVEN IF SHE
DOES SURVIVE,
WILL THERE BE
LONG-TERM CONSEQUENCES?
WE'RE GONNA CHECK
X-RAYS TODAY,
AND MAKE SURE
THAT WE'RE NOT DOING
MORE HARM THAN GOOD.
EACH ARTIFICIAL BREATH
IS GONNA BE DAMAGING,
AND OVER THE COURSE OF TIME
THAT DAMAGE
MAY BLOSSOM
INTO CHRONIC LUNG DISEASE.
GRANDMOTHER'S AFRAID
OF CEREBRAL PALSY
AND MENTAL RETARDATION.
I THINK MOTHER
IS BETTER.
Brazelton:
ANGELA IS FINALLY
OUT OF TROUBLE...
BASICALLY, SHE DOES NOT WANT
THIS CHILD TO SUFFER.
Brazelton:
...BUT NOT HER DAUGHTER.
IF I HAD TO GUESS
THE FUTURE,
WE COULD PULL OUT THE STOPS
AND DO LOTS OF THINGS,
BUT I'M NOT SURE
WE'RE GONNA WIN THIS ONE.
WE CAN NOT
ESCALATE SUPPORT,
OR WE CAN ACTUALLY
WITHDRAW SUPPORT,
KEEP THE BABY COMFORTABLE.
I DON'T THINK THESE LUNGS
ARE A GOOD SET OF LUNGS.
IN TERMS OF ANY
RESEARCH-TYPE MEDICATIONS,
I DON'T THINK
DIFFERENT DEVICES
WOULD SHOW ANY BENEFIT,
SO I'M GONNA STICK
WITH THE ROUTINE LEVEL
OF MECHANICAL VENTILATION
AND SUPPORT RIGHT NOW,
BUT I'D LIKE TO OFFER
YOU THE CHANCE
TO SAY HELLO
TO YOUR DAUGHTER
IF WE CAN BUY
THE TIME FOR THAT.
TECHNOLOGY HAS GIVEN HER
AN OPPORTUNITY
THAT COULD MAKE THE DIFFERENCE
IN THE REST OF HER LIFE.
BUT THE GIFT OF LIFE,
COMPARED TO, YOU KNOW,
THE FULL QUALITY
OF LIFE--
IT'S NOT A DECISION
PEOPLE ARE SUPPOSED TO MAKE.
( steady heartbeat )
PARENTING,"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com.
WE ALL WANT TO GET
PREMATURES OFF THE GROUND
SO THEY CAN GET ORGANIZED
AND BE READY TO GO HOME
AND FACE
A COMPLEX ENVIRONMENT.
I'M HERE
WITH DR. EVELYN THOMAN
WHO'S BEEN DEVELOPING
AN AMAZING HIGH-TECH DEVICE
IN A VERY LOW-TECH PACKAGE,
AND I WONDER
HOW IN THE WORLD
DID YOU EVER COME
TO ANYTHING AS CRAZY
AS A BEAR
FOR A PREMATURE BABY.
WELL, ALL BABIES
LOVE BEARS, BERRY.
( both laugh )
AND WHEN PREMATURE BABIES
ARE IN THE HOSPITAL
DURING THE PRETERM PERIOD,
EVERYTHING THAT'S
DONE TO THEM IS
DONE TO THEM,
AND FOR THEM.
WHAT WE REALLY
WANTED TO DO WAS
TO DEVISE SOMETHING
THAT WOULD LET THE BABIES
DO SOMETHING FOR THEMSELVES.
YOU MEAN, THEY PICK IT UP
LIKE A LOVEY
AND HOLD ON TO IT?
NO, THEY CAN'T
PICK IT UP,
BUT THEY CAN CERTAINLY
GET CLOSER TO IT,
AND THEY CAN MOVE
AWAY FROM IT.
A PREMATURE BABY?
A TINY LITTLE PREEMIE
- NOT AS BIG AS THIS?
- I WILL SHOW YOU,
FIRST OF ALL,
WHAT IT IS
THAT MAKES THEM
INTERESTED IN IT.
- OH, LOOK AT THAT
START TO BREATHE!
- THE BEAR--
- IT BREATHES.
- ( laughs )
FURTHERMORE, IT BREATHES
AT THE SAME RATE
OF THE BABY
IT IS PUT WITH.
- IT'S BREATHING
AT YOUR RATE RIGHT NOW.
- REALLY?
THE BABIES
THAT HAVE A BEAR
BREATHE MORE REGULARLY,
BECAUSE THEY'VE GOT
A REGULAR MODEL TO FOLLOW.
MY GOLLY, THESE BABIES
THAT HAVE RAPID BREATHING
- THEN STOP,
THEN RAPID BREATHING...
- YES.
- BEGIN TO REGULATE
WITH THE BEAR?
- YES,
AND WE HAVE SHOWN THAT
IN OUR RESEARCH.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THIS IS DESIGNED TO DO
IS TO BE VERY QUIET,
BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT
TO IMPOSE ANYTHING
ON THE BABY,
ANY STIMULATION
ON THE BABY.
YOU KNOW,
THEY HAVE USED
- MUSIC AND VOICES...
- RIGHT.
AND THE BABIES
CAN'T TURN THEM OFF.
THEY'RE TOO FRAGILE.
THEIR NERVOUS SYSTEMS
CAN'T TAKE A LOT
OF THAT STIMULATION.
THAT'S RIGHT,
AND WITH THE BEAR
THE IDEA WAS,
THE BABY WOULD KNOW
HOW MUCH STIMULATION
- IT COULD TAKE.
- WOW.
AND THAT'S WHY
THE BEAR
IS FLAT ON THE TWO SIDES.
IT'S SO THAT WE CAN
PUT HIM IN THE ISOLETTE
AWAY FROM THE BABY,
SO IT ISN'T IMPOSED
ON THE BABY.
BUT HOW COULD THEY SENSE,
IF IT'S AWAY FROM THEM,
THAT THIS MEANS ANYTHING?
WELL, THEY CONTACT IT
FIRST BY CHANCE,
AND THEN THEY LEARN--
THE BEAR IS THERE.
AND LET ME SHOW YOU,
EACH BABY HAS
ITS OWN WAY
OF WANTING TO TOUCH
THAT BEAR.
SOME BABIES WILL PUSH
THEIR HEAD UP AGAINST IT,
SOME BABIES WILL
PUT THEIR FEET, THEIR LEGS
UP AGAINST IT,
AS THAT BABY DOES.
AND THIS IS A LEARNING
EXPERIENCE FOR THE BABIES...
- WOW.
- ...BECAUSE THEY LEARN
THE BEAR IS THERE.
NOW IF THE BEAR
ISN'T BREATHING,
- THEY DON'T DO THAT.
- REALLY?
- NO, THEY DON'T.
- HOW CAN THEY TELL?
WELL, YOU TOLD.
- WELL, I DID,
- YOU CAN TELL.
BUT I'M ALL GROWN UP.
NO, THEY CAN TELL
THE DIFFERENCE.
AT LEAST THEY CAN
TELL THE DIFFERENCE
SUCH THAT
THE NON-BREATHING BEAR
DOES NOT ATTRACT THE BABY.
AND THIS IS
FOLLOWING THE TIME
WHEN WE DIDN'T THINK
BABIES COULD EVEN
SEE OR HEAR.
- THAT'S RIGHT.
- NOW YOU'RE TELLING ME
THAT BEING IN CONTROL
OF SOMETHING
REALLY FOSTERS
BRAIN DEVELOPMENT
AT A VERY VERY FRAGILE,
EARLY AGE.
SO IT'S A KIND
OF CONTINGENCY,
ISN'T IT?
THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
IT GETS INTO THE BABY'S
OWN EFFORTS
- AND REINFORCES THEM.
- THAT'S RIGHT.
ISN'T THAT FASCINATING?
IT'S SO SIMPLE!
IT DOES SEEM SIMPLE,
BUT IT'S VERY PROFOUND,
BECAUSE THIS MEANS
THAT THE BRAIN
IS DOING ALL THE THINGS
YOU SAID.
IT'S BECOMING
BETTER ORGANIZED.
- IT'S ENDURING
FOR THE BABIES.
- WONDERFUL.
Brazelton:
SHE'S TWO DAYS OLD.
MIRACULOUSLY,
ROBYNE IS HANGING ON,
STABILIZED,
BUT HARDLY THRIVING.
YOU LOOK SO CUTE
IN YOUR PINK RIBBON.
Greenspan:
WE ALL EXPECT
TO HAVE A HEALTHY,
BOUNCING BABY GIRL
OR BOY.
IT'S A TRAGEDY
FOR A FAMILY
WHENEVER A BABY COMES
INTO AN INTENSIVE CARE.
WE TRY TO PREPARE THEM
FOR WHAT CAN HAPPEN
AND WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN
AND WHAT PROBABLY WILL HAPPEN,
BUT THEY,
LIKE ANY PARENT,
REMAIN OPTIMISTIC,
HOPEFUL.
AND WE REALIZE
THAT THEY'RE,
IN A SENSE,
OUR PATIENTS TOO--
THE PARENTS.
WE TRY TO-- WE'LL TRY
TO HELP THEM THROUGH IT,
NO MATTER WHAT HAPPENS
TO THEIR DAUGHTER.
- THERE'S HYPERINFLATION
ALREADY.
- OKAY.
- THAT'S WHERE I'M COMING FROM
IN TERMS OF ANOTHER--
- OKAY.
Brazelton:
LIFE IN THE NEONATAL
INTENSIVE CARE UNIT
IS A SERIES OF DECISIONS.
WITH ROBYNE
THE DECISIONS KEEP
GETTING TOUGHER.
( ventilator hissing )
GREAT ON THE RIGHT.
THE LEFT IS STILL DOWN.
( indistinct conversation )
Greenspan:
I FELT BADLY FOR THE PARENT
GOING THROUGH THIS.
I FELT HORRIBLY
FOR THE BABY.
IF THINGS WERE TO GO
SUDDENLY DISASTROUSLY WRONG,
WE MAY HAVE
TO MAKE A DECISION
ABOUT RESUSCITATING,
AND THAT MEANS
THE WHOLE NINE YARDS--
CHEST COMPRESSIONS,
HIGH-PRESSURE VENTILATION
AND EMERGENCY MEDS.
IT JUST DOESN'T WORK VERY WELL
WHEN THEY'RE THIS SMALL.
THEY CAN BLEED IN THE HEAD,
THEY CAN BLEED IN THE LUNGS.
Greenspan:
ROBYNE WAS BORN
AT 24 WEEKS,
WHICH IS REALLY
THE BORDERLINE OF VIABILITY.
IN THAT CASE
WE OFTEN BRING IN
THE FAMILY
TO MAKE THESE
DIFFICULT DECISIONS
AS TO HOW AGGRESSIVE
WE SHOULD BE
WITH BABIES LIKE ROBYNE.
SOUNDS TO ME
LIKE YOU WANT US
TO HOLD THE LINE RIGHT NOW.
- RIGHT.
- YOU GOT IT.
WE'LL HOLD THE LINE AND
SUPPORT HER AS BEST WE CAN.
IF IT FALLS APART,
I'LL COME TALK TO YOU AGAIN.
( monitor beeping )
Brazelton:
SIX HOURS LATER,
AND ROBYNE'S
CONDITION FALLS
ABOUT AS FAR APART
AS YOU CAN GET.
ROBYNE'S LUNGS,
STRESSED BY THE CONSTANT
PRESSURE OF THE VENTILATOR,
ARE FINALLY GIVING OUT...
HER VITAL SIGNS--
FAILING.
BLOOD PRESSURE--
DANGEROUSLY LOW.
RESPIRATION--
A WHISPER.
A BLEEDING BRAIN
COULD PARALYZE HER
OR LEAVE HER BLIND.
DOCTORS FINALLY MANAGE
TO RESUSCITATE
BUT THE NEXT CRISIS
COULD BE ROBYNE'S LAST.
Baumgart:
THERE WAS A REAL
GOOD CHANCE
SHE WASN'T GONNA
MAKE IT THROUGH THE NIGHT.
FOR ALL WE WERE DOING,
SHE WAS DYING.
THAT'S WHEN WE HAD
THE PRIEST COME IN
TO TALK
TO THE PARENTS.
Relatives
...FATHER WHO ART IN HEAVEN
HALLOWED BE THY NAME--
Brazelton:
THE ONLY THING
LEFT TO DO--
LAST RITES...
Relatives:
...GIVE US THIS DAY
OUR DAILY BREAD--
Brazelton:
...AND PRAYER.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT,
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE--
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY IS
SO EXCITED ABOUT--
Brazelton:
...TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Man:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
MY QUESTION IS--
AFTER 30 YEARS
- OF OWNING
A FAMILY DAYCARE HOME...
- UH-HUH.
...AND ABOUT 130 CHILDREN,
I'VE NOTICED--
AND I'M WONDERING
HOW I CAN HELP.
PREMATURE BABIES--
ARE THEY
DESTINED TO BE
EMOTIONALLY DELAYED?
ARE THEY
DESTINED TO BE
SOCIALLY DELAYED
LATER ON IN LIFE
OR WILL THEY CATCH UP?
WHEN AND HOW DO I HELP?
I USE AN EXPRESSION CALLED,
"YOUR CHILD
WILL BE JUST FINE
IN HER OWN SWEET TIME,"
BUT WILL THEY CATCH UP?
I THINK "CATCH UP"
IS A MISTAKEN IDEA.
'CAUSE IT MEANS YOU'RE
ALWAYS COMPARING THEM
TO SOME NORM THAT YOU
HAVE IN YOUR MIND,
AND YOU WASTE
ALL YOUR ENERGY
ON THAT COMPARISON
RATHER THAN
ON WHAT KIND OF CHILD
YOU'RE REALLY DEALING WITH.
AND A LOT
OF PREMATURES
ARE VERY SENSITIVE,
VERY HYPERSENSITIVE.
YOU REALLY NEED
TO CONCENTRATE
ON WHAT THAT BABY'S LIKE.
I FIND IN MY OWN
WORK WITH PREEMIES,
I CAN EITHER LOOK
OR TALK OR TOUCH,
BUT I CAN'T DO
BUT ONE AT A TIME.
I HAVE TO WAIT
TILL THEY FINALLY SOFTEN,
AND THEN I CAN SAY,
"HOW ARE YOU DOING?"
AND THEY STIFFEN AND ARCH,
AND FINALLY RELAX,
AND IT TAKES
A LONG TIME.
IT TOOK MY OLDEST
GRANDCHILD FOUR YEARS
BEFORE I COULD
WALK IN THE HOUSE,
LOOK HIM IN THE FACE,
AND KEEP HIM THERE.
HOW CAN YOU
PROMISE PARENTS
THAT THEY'RE GONNA
CATCH UP,
WHEN IT TAKES THEM
THAT LONG
TO PUT A BRAIN TOGETHER
THAT'S BEEN STRESSED?
THAT'S WHAT IT IS.
WHAT I FIND
WORRIES MOTHERS IS,
SOME MOTHERS CAN'T HUG
OR KISS THEIR BABIES...
- YEAH.
- ...EVEN WHEN THEY'RE
TWO AND THREE YEARS OLD.
YOU CAN MODEL.
YOU CAN SAY,
"THERE ARE OTHER WAYS
OF LETTING THEM KNOW
- YOU CARE ABOUT THEM."
- OH.
JUST PUTTING YOUR HAND BACK
WHEN THEY'VE GOT
THEIR HAND THERE,
OR JUST TALKING
GENTLY TO THEM
WITHOUT LOOKING AT THEM.
MODEL FOR THEM
THAT A BABY CAN
TAKE IN SO MUCH,
BUT IN THE PROCESS SAY,
"THIS IS THE WAY
SHE GETS THE MOST
OUT OF WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
IF YOU CAN DO IT
VERY GRADUALLY
AND AT THEIR SPEED,
THEN THEY CAN
PUT IT TOGETHER."
- IT TAKES A LONG TIME.
- THANK YOU.
( audience applauds )
WITH ME TODAY
IS CRYSTAL HOLMES,
OUR INTERNET EXPERT
FROM IBM.
CRYSTAL, PARENTS
OF PREMATURE BABIES
NEED TIME TO GRIEVE
ABOUT HAVING PRODUCED
A FRAGILE BABY,
AND YET THEY NEED
THE INFORMATION
TO DO A GOOD JOB
BY THOSE BABIES.
- CAN THE INTERNET
HELP WITH THAT?
- ABSOLUTELY, BERRY.
THE INTERNET CAN PROVIDE
PARENTS OF PREMATURE BABIES
NOT JUST INFORMATION
REGARDING WHAT THEY'RE
GOING THROUGH,
BUT ACTUAL SUPPORT
AND THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SHARE
WITH OTHER PARENTS
SOME OF THE EMOTIONAL
TURMOIL THAT THEY MAY BE
GOING THROUGH.
"PARENTS OF PREMATURE BABIES"
IS ONE WEBSITE
THAT PROVIDES
GOOD INFORMATION.
YOU CAN LINK
FROM THAT SITE
TO "WELCOME TO preemies.org."
HERE YOU CAN ACTUALLY ENGAGE
IN A CHAT ROOM DISCUSSION
WITH ANOTHER PARENT GOING
THROUGH SIMILAR CHALLENGES
THAT YOU MAY BE
GOING THROUGH
TO PROVIDE EACH OTHER
SUPPORT,
TO SHARE YOUR PAINS
AND YOUR FEARS
BUT ALSO YOUR JOYS
AND YOUR SUCCESS.
YOU'RE NOT IN THIS ALONE,
AND THE INTERNET
CAN HELP YOU REACH OUT
TO THOSE PEOPLE
THAT ARE EXPERIENCING
WHAT YOU'RE EXPERIENCING
AND FIND SOME JOY
AND SOME HOPE.
THAT'S WONDERFUL,
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW,
WE'VE DONE A GOOD JOB
MEDICALLY
OF SAVING NOT ONLY PREMATURES,
BUT THEIR BRAINS.
BUT WE FOUND THAT
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
TO THEIR FUTURE
IS HOW THE PARENTS
ADJUST TO THESE
FRAGILE BABIES.
IF THEY CAN GET SUPPORT
FORM EACH OTHER,
CAN'T THEY LEARN
HOW TO DO THAT?
BERRY, OUR INTERNET
QUESTION TODAY
COMES FROM DAWN
FROM CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA.
HER QUESTION IS--
"OUR FIRST BABY, PEYTON,
WAS PREMATURE.
I HAD A NORMAL PREGNANCY
UNTIL MY WATER
BROKE ALMOST TWO MONTHS
BEFORE MY DUE DATE.
MY DOCTORS CANNOT TELL US
WHY PEYTON WAS EARLY.
WE ARE NOW THINKING
OF HAVING OUR SECOND CHILD
BUT MY HUSBAND JEFF
AND I ARE NERVOUS--
COULD THIS HAPPEN AGAIN?"
YEAH, SURE COULD,
BUT IF YOU'RE IN GOOD
OBSTETRICAL HANDS,
THE CHANCES ARE
CERTAINLY REDUCED.
NOW YOU'RE GONNA
WORRY ABOUT IT
ALL THE WAY THROUGH THIS
NEXT PREGNANCY
UNTIL YOU PASS THE TIME
WHEN THAT FIRST CHILD CAME.
SO I'D BE SURE YOU HAVE
THE BEST SUPPORT
YOU CAN GET.
Brazelton:
FOR MORE ANSWERS
AND INFORMATION
VISIT US ONLINE AT...
cer:
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING,"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com.
Greenspan:
THE QUESTION WE ALWAYS HAVE
WHEN YOU'RE BORN
AT 24 WEEKS,
SHOULD WE BE--
YOU DON'T WANT
TO PROLONG A SITUATION
WHERE THE INFANT WAS
ULTIMATELY GOING TO DIE.
IN ROBYNE'S CASE,
SHE REALLY CAME OUT FIGHTING.
SHE CLEARLY SHOWED US
A WILL TO LIVE.
- HI.
- WHO IS THAT?
- SAY HI!
- HI, ROBYNE.
Brazelton:
ROBYNE PERRY--
TWO YEARS OLD.
Dr. Greenspan:
I THINK ROBYNE REPRESENTS
A VERY GOOD SUCCESS STORY.
SHE IS SMALLER,
SHE'S A LITTLE WEAKER
ON ONE SIDE THAN THE OTHER,
AND A LITTLE BIT
MORE FRAGILE.
Brazelton:
ROBYNE'S ALSO A TOTALLY
DELIGHTFUL LITTLE GIRL.
Dr. Greenspan:
THE FACT IS THAT SEEING HER
AND OTHERS LIKE HER
GIVES US HOPE
THAT ALL THE HARD WORK
THAT PARENTS DO AND WE DO
IS WORTHWHILE.
- A LITTLE KISS.
- AWW.
WHEN I LOOK
AT ROBYNE NOW,
I SEE THE MOST AMAZING,
STRONG-WILLED...
- HAPPY-GO-LUCKY.
- ...LOVING GIFT OF GOD.
I DON'T SEE HER
AS HAVING ANY PROBLEMS
OR ANY SETBACKS.
I SEE HER AS THE MOST
AMAZING HUMAN BEING
IN MY EYES.
( laughs )
SHE'S A GIFT OF GOD.
AS ROBYNE HAS SHOWN US,
A BABY BORN
EXTREMELY EARLY
CAN SURVIVE
AND EVEN THRIVE.
NOT EVERY STORY HAS
SUCH A HAPPY ENDING,
BUT AS WE'VE SEEN,
WE'RE MAKING PROGRESS
EVERY DAY
IN HELPING THESE PREEMIES
GET ORGANIZED AND HEALTHY
AND IN HELPING
THEIR PARENTS DEAL
WITH THEIR OWN
ISSUES OF GRIEF
SO THEY'LL BE ABLE
TO UNDERSTAND THEIR BABIES
EVEN BEFORE THEY GO HOME.
I THINK THAT'S SO IMPORTANT
FOR THE BABY'S FUTURE,
BECAUSE A BABY REALLY
CAN'T MAKE IT
UNLESS THE WHOLE FAMILY
MAKES IT.
( theme music playing )